Contact
www.linkedin.com/in/zuhairhasnain (LinkedIn)
www.uaar.edu.pk/fcfs/
faculty_details.php (Company)
www.facebook.com/zuhair.hasnain
(Personal)

Top Skills
Improved Rice Production
Plant Nutrition
Irrigation Management

Languages
Urdu (Full Professional)
English (Professional Working)
Seraiki (Professional Working)
Persian (Limited Working)
Punjabi (Native or Bilingual)
Hindi (Elementary)

Zuhair Hasnain

| Agronomist | Programme Management | Development Professional
| Teacher | Researcher | Value Chain | Livelihoods | Food Security |
Administrator | Financial Controller | PhD |
Islāmābād, Pakistan

Summary
Core Specialization Areas of Mine
 Development sector (Rural Development)
 Program planning & implementation, outreach & capacity building
 Coordination & HR Management
 Administration
 Leadership, Strategic Planning, and Staff Development/
Supervision
 Infrastructure development (construction) & Procurements
 Field Crops Management/Agronomy
 Teaching & Research

Arabic (Limited Working)

Certifications
LinkeDIn Career Flow Optimization
Certificate
Computer Applications

Honors-Awards
Approved PhD supervisor by Higher
Education Commission (HEC)
Pakistan
PhD Indigenous Scholarship’ by
Higher Education Commission
(HEC) Pakistan in PhD
International Research Support
Initiative Program Scholarship by
Higher Education Commission
(HEC) Pakistan in PhD
Merit Scholarship by Higher
Education Commission (HEC)
Pakistan in Masters
Research publication incentive by
PMAS-Arid Agriculture University

Salient Features about my Profile
1. Diversified International/National level exposure. A best blend of
Agricultural Research with proven exposure of Development Sector
together with Finance Department – A unique feature
2. Revelation of Challenging Working Environments
3. Assignments with International Donor
4. Terminal level of education attained i.e. PhD
5. Excellent Writing and Reviewing Skills
6. Best Communication & Negotiation Skills
7. Knowledge of MS Office / IT Systems
8. Fluency in many languages
Page 1 of 4

Publications
Dynamics of nutrients and cation
exchange capacity (CEC) under
different crop sequences and tillage
systems in subtropical dry land
Exogenous application of different
plant extracts on the growth and
performance of wheat (Triticum
aestivum L.)
Agri-nanotechnology and treenanobionics: augmentation in
crop yield, biosafety and biomass
accumulation

9. Accuracy & Attention
10. Multi-tasking & Time Management
11. Travelled extensively Internationally and Country-wide
12. Multi-cultural Environment Working
13. Physically fit for field operations/working conditions

Genetic behavior of yield contributing
and ionic concentration traits under
salt stress conditions in cotton
(Gossypium hirsutum L.)

14. Carrying with me driving license of LTV as well as International
Driving Permit

Cultivatable bacterial community in
water from Lai Nullah contaminated
with household sewage and
industrial waste is more diverse
and populated compared with
nonpolluted water

Experience
PMAS Arid Agriculture University, Rawalpindi
Assistant Professor
May 2015 - Present (10 years 11 months)
Rawalpindi, Punjab, Pakistan

Core objectives of this job are teaching and research along with capacity
building and outreach programs

Arid Agriculture University
Project Director

July 2016 - July 2023 (7 years 1 month)
Attock, Punjab, Pakistan
 Worked as ‘Project Director’ of a Government-funded Mega Project
(Provision of Missing Facilities/Infrastructure at Sub Campus of PMAS-Arid
Agriculture University at Attock) worth PKR:330 Million (Duration: 2022-23)
 Completed a Government-funded Mega Project (establishment of subcampus of a public sector university) worth PKR:880 Million as ‘Project
Director’ (Duration: 2016-22)

Aga Khan Rural Support Programme
Agriculturist

August 2012 - May 2015 (2 years 10 months)
Satpara Irrigation and Agriculture Development Project (SDP), Skardu,
Pakistan

Page 2 of 4

Used to work with USAID-funded SDP project (https://pdf.usaid.gov/pdf_docs/
PA00TG7Z.pdf) implemented by Aga Khan Rural Support Program - AKRSP
(a subsidiary of Aga Khan Foundation - AKF) as an 'Agriculturist' in Value
Chain (VC) section so fully familiar with general patterns, overall circulations
and working methodologies of the International donor.
While with SDP my core responsibilities were:
 conduct walk the chain activities
 coordinate with Seed Certification Department for trainings of seed
producers
 conduct participatory monitoring and evaluation of on-going activities
 identify suitable locations and farmers to establish greenhouses
 conduct Farmer Field School (FFS) in off season vegetable production and
seed production and maintain all records accordingly
 undertake greenhouse management trainings to the potential groups to raise
productivity and add value
 provide technical advice for major field crop production

Habib Bank Limited
Assistant Manager

November 2005 - October 2011 (6 years)
Lahore, Pakistan
I Joined Habib Bank Limited as Officer in November, 2005 and after
completion of basic banking training at Head Office Karachi, I was
transferred to Corporate Center in Multan, Pakistan as Imports Officer. I held
various positions in Trade Services, Operations, Cash Management, HR,
Administration in Multan and Lahore branches. While in HR Admin, I did best
for my organization by performing my duties, manage all very well and cut
short the expenses within limit allocated so it was a big task achieved.
My last assignment was of Manager, Trade Services Unit at a Lahore
based branch, where I was successfully handling some very important trade
relationships; Responsibilities included proactive resolution of customers’
service issues related to trade. Also provided information and guidance to
various customers on different trade related issues; regular customer calling
for keeping alive congenial business relationship.

Education
Bahauddin Zakariya University
Page 3 of 4

Doctor of Philosophy - PhD, Agriculture Agronomy · (January 2008 - December
2014)

The International Rice Research Institute (IRRI)
PhD-thesis Research Fellow, The C4 Rice Project · (October 2011 - March
2012)

University of Agriculture, Faisalabad
B.Sc (Hons) & M.Sc (Hons) Agriculture , Agronomy and Crop
Science · (January 2000 - October 2005)

Page 4 of 4

